---
layout: post
category: links
title: $167/year raises are newsworthy
teaser: It doesn't take much to make some people happy
tags: [link, summary, tech]
---

###New Employee Discount Program at Apple

Splendid stretching of the definition of "news" by [9to5Mac](http://9to5mac.com/2012/01/25/tim-cook-at-todays-town-hall-starting-in-june-apple-employees-get-500-off-macs-250-off-ipads/).
Apple (Designed in California&trade;) CEO Tim Cook announced a new employee benefit at the company's internal town hall
yesterday. Starting June, all employees will get $500 off (in addition to their existing 25% discount on all company products)
on Macs and iPads. The catch: they can only use it once every 3 years. This works out to about $167/year/employee. 

While we're on the topic of employee benefits, the gold standard must surely be Google, who announced a [$1000 (post-tax) Christmas
bonus and an across-the-board 10% salary hike](http://articles.businessinsider.com/2010-11-09/tech/30024423_1_google-ceo-googlers-eric-schmidt) 
2 years ago. Compared to that, the most valuable company in the world giving out $167 in store credit is a bit laughable. 

###AT&T Try to be More Tone-Deaf than MPAA

AT&T CEO Randall Stevenson is doing his best to cement his company's position at the [bottom of the customer satisfaction
rankings](http://content.usatoday.com/communities/technologylive/post/2011/12/survey-at38t-rates-last-in-customer-satisfaction/1).

Still peeved at the breakdown of the T-Mobile acquisition thanks to the FCC, Stevenson announced that AT&T would have to
increase data prices because of a lack of capacity, because they weren't allowed to acquire T-Mobile.

> In a capacity-constrained environment we will manage usage-based data plans, increased pricing and managing the speeds of 
> the highest volume users. These are all logical and necessary steps to manage utilization.

As has already been pointed out though, AT&T has actually reduced their per-unit price for data on all plans. The only effect
of the "price increase" has been to force customers onto more expensive plans, even though they pay less per unit of data on
these plans. Clearly capacity isn't a problem at AT&T if they can afford to give out more for less. Instead as [ReadWriteWeb](http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/att_ceo_randall_stevenson_blasts_fcc_hints_at_high.php)
points out, this is more of a punishment to their customers and the FCC. Or a tantrum. However you want to look at it.

This blog suggests that AT&T take some of that $40 billion they were planning to spend on buying T-Mobile and put some more
cell towers up. Maybe give out some [femtocells for free](http://news.cnet.com/8301-30685_3-20001242-264.html)?
