---
layout: post
category: links
title: Wasn't Facebook in the News Today?
teaser: Why we need TechIPOTropes.com
---

###Yesteryear's Hot Consumer Electronics Firm Shakes Things Up

Clearly most of the tech world is focused elsewhere, but I thought this was the more interesting piece of news. Once the dominant force in consumer electronics, maker of shiny silver gadgets that people coveted and carried in their pockets, Sony [fired its British CEO Sir Howard Stringer](http://techcrunch.com/2012/02/01/back-to-basics-sony-appoints-kazuo-hirai-ousts-stringer/), elevating their electronics division head Kazuo Hirai. 

The past 10-15 years have not been kind to the once-great company. They never "got" the Internet or the mobile revolution, and are suffering for it. TC recommends that Sony head back to the safety of its Playstation platform and dominate games, but that's no way for a company like them to go. Microsoft and its Xbox division have scads of cash and traction, and console gaming isn't growing like it once used to. It would be sad to see them try to make a go of it in mobile or social gaming. No, there's only one way forward for them, IMHO.

Sony was known for its stunning, clean designs, elegant gadgets and ability to push the boundaries of what was possible with electronics (they created the first pocketable radio, the first portable music player and many other firsts). They must try to get back to those roots. Software isn't their strength, and it's fortuitous that HP recently decided to open-source WebOS, a lost little orphan looking for a loving home. Sony have the cash to throw at making it a viable platform and the pure engineering ability to design and build devices of outstanding quality. Let's hope they haven't lost their stomach for the fight; it's all-too-easy for Apple (Designed in California &trade;) at the moment.

###Facebook IPO Follows Formula

Following the trail blazed by tech companies in recent years, Facebook (dubbed the IPO of the century) finally filed to go public today. The filing displayed all the tropes of a tech company's filing: letter from founder setting out idealistic vision - check, CEO taking a $1 salary but becoming filthy rich - check, promises to maintain a certain unique company culture - check, appeals to investors to take into account that it's more than just a company or an investment - check.

FB is a mammoth, of that there is no doubt. They have large profits and equally impressive margins ($1 billion and 27%, respectively, last year). Apart from letting investors and early employees cash out and get rich, they don't really need to IPO, with numbers like that. 

I'm not providing links for this because it's easily the biggest tech news story since Steve Jobs' death.