---
layout: post
category: links
title: It's Only Chutzpah when Google Does It
teaser: Some people don't consider 2.25% FRAND, but shutting someone down is OK
---

###Google and Harvey Dent

A fair amount of heat in the press about Google applying the squeeze on Apple through Motorola's patent horde. Noted Apple (Designed in California&trade;) fanboy [MG Siegler](http://pandodaily.com/2012/02/08/harvey-harvey-harvey-dent/) accused Google of being Two-Face from Batman because of this new strategy, because a year ago their public policy stance was that software patents are harmful and should not exist. And now they're demanding 2.25% of every iPhone and iPad sold. 

Clearly, according to Siegler, companies shouldn't be allowed to change their minds, ever, even when the other side isn't playing by the same rules. If you declare yourself to be a pacifist, you should stand idly and let thugs beat you senseless. At least he admits that Apple is doing the same thing to Samsung and other Android OEMs, that being Steve Jobs' wish. They're not even offering to license their patents and want their competitors to be shut down.

And Forbes magazine's editor [Philip Elmer-Dewitt](http://tech.fortune.cnn.com/2012/02/09/chutzpah-google-also-wants-2-25-of-every-iphone-sale/) thinks it's fair for Apple to assert their patents to shut down competition because those are proprietary works that the Cupertino giant never agreed to make industry standard, unlike Motorola's fundamental patents, which Moto promised to never assert when they were granted. Again, we see the opinion from a respected voice that companies should not be allowed to change their minds, even when the competition is playing by different rules

Motorola agreed to license their patents. Google will continue to do so, but will change the price. It's no more or less fair than suing someone over pinch-to-zoom interaction.