---
layout: post
category: links
title: TIL - Facebook tells Lies
teaser: Shakedown shakes porn copyright law to the core
---

###It's All Semantics Really

[Andrew Ross Sorkin](http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2012/02/06/those-millions-on-facebook-some-may-not-actually-visit/)
was freaking out over Facebook's claims that it has 483 million active users everyday, implying it was disingenuous. The reason: Facebook counts "Like"-ing or sharing via the "Share on Facebook" button as being active on Facebook. Since these people don't see any ads, they don't make revenue directly for FB.

Firstly, am I really more active if I login to Facebook and paste a link into my status update (theoretically, since I don't have an account), than if I click on the Share button from the article directly? Sorkin concedes that even non-FB domain engagement is valuable information to FB but insists that investors deserve to also have signed-in user numbers. IMHO, it's really not that big of a deal, except to stock analysts who want to seem like they're doing more work by examining another metric. It's entirely possible for Facebook to roll out an AdSense-style advertising network, making it irrelevant whether users actually visit Facebook.com. Speaking of which, how come Facebook doesn't have something like AdSense? Or is it just my small minded-ness to think AdSense is still relevant?


###Could this mean free porn forever?

A California woman's fight against the copyright mafia shakedown has brought to light an interesting legal question: can porn be copyrighted at all?

I must admit the headline, [You Can't Copyright Porn, Harassed BitTorrent Defendant Insists](http://torrentfreak.com/you-cant-copyright-porn-bittorrent-defendant-insists-120206/), had me thinking of those people who upload Taylor Swift songs to Youtube and write "No copyrights intented[sic]". Instead, Liuxia Wong of California, who was told that a copyright infringement lawsuit for allegedly pirating Hard Drive productions' cinematic masterpiece *Amateur Allure Jen* could go away for $3400, fought back with a stunning claim: porn can't be copyrighted.

Copyright was intended "To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts", and a California circuit court ruled that "obscene works did not promote the progress of science and art" (would love to see a link to this judgement somewhere, but the article did not say). If you put 2 and 2 together, this seems to imply that porn can't be copyrighted. Now it's unlikely that such a judgement will ever come to pass, so I think the most likely outcome is Hard Drive productions slinking away, tail between legs. 
