---
layout: post
category: links
title: The World of DIY Drones
teaser: The future is truly here
---

###These Ain't Your Older Sibling's Drones

Today, I took my first steps into the world of DIY drones. Saw a link on a colleague's GChat status (thanks Andrew!) - [tacocopter.com](http://tacocopter.com). I still don't know if they're for real, but this West coast startup purports to deliver tacos using flying robots. 

I dove headlong into the world of DIY drones to find out if it was possible. Turns out, information is really sparse on the ground (weak laugh). [Arducopter](https://code.google.com/p/arducopter/) is a hotbed of activity; an open-source UAV autopilot project. This thing is ridiculously futuristic-sounding: "scripted waypoints, GPS, sonar sensor for automated takeoff and landing capability". And it starts at $600! 

With a theoretical range of 4km in some configurations, and minimum payload capabilities of 500gm (although these two figures were obtained separately, so I don't know if both are possible), food delivery using drones is tantalizingly within reach of the existing technology. It just needs a determined startup to max out these capabilities, solve the security problems, set up charging stations (maybe on cellphone towers?) and provide food delivery as a service (FDaS?) to restaurants. So restaurants can focus on doing what they do best: making the food. The drone flies in, picks up the food, drops it off and zips back to its charging station.

When you think about it, using an entire car and person to deliver a single parcel of food is rather wasteful. 

Regulatory issues will undoubtedly crop up. The FAA will get involved. And of course, the potential for lawsuits when a drone inevitably falls out of the sky and conks somebody in head. 

UPDATE: What you inevitably get for posting too early: [Tacocopter is a fake service](https://code.google.com/p/arducopter/) and the article confirms my suspicions that the regulatory and safety issues make this nearly impossible in the near future. Shame. 